---
title: "(Invited Talk) Dynamics of Magnetism and Microstructure in Iron-Chromium and Iron-Nickel Alloys"
collection: talks
type: "Invited Talk"
permalink: 
venue: "European Materials Research Society Spring Meeting, Strasbourg, France"
date: 2018-07-19
location: "Strasbourg, France"
---

P.-W. Ma, M.Y. Lavrentiev, J.B.J. Chapman, J.S. Wrobel, D. Nguyen-Manh, S. L. Dudarev

The properties of iron alloys and steels significant to the use of these materials in magnetic fusion technology and engineering are their high temperature structural stability, allowing for the high thermal efficiency of operation of a fusion power plant, and magnetic properties that are expected to be compatible with the requirements of magnetic plasma confinement. Magnetism of iron alloys influences their phase stability, for example the position of the gamma-loop in the FeCr phase diagram [1], the solubility of chromium, and the relative stability of high temperature alpha and gamma phases [1,2]. Of particular interest is the effect of microstructure on magnetic properties, where simulations, confirmed by experimental observations, show that magnetism of iron is enhanced by vacancies produced by irradiation. The Curie temperature of FeCr alloys varies over a broad temperature range as a function of microstructure, increasing rapidly because of Cr precipitation [3]. We investigate the dynamics of magnetism in FeCr and FeNi alloys, relating it to the alloy microstructure, using dynamic magnetic cluster expansion models, parameterized using databases of DFT-generated atomic configurations. Dynamic magnetic cluster expansion simulations provide valuable information about the response of alloys to fluctuating magnetic field and temperature on a million atom scale, necessary for exploring structural and magnetic properties of steels under realistic plasma confinement conditions. [1] M.Y. Lavrentiev et al., Magnetic cluster expansion model for bcc-fcc transitions in Fe and Fe-Cr alloys, Phys. Rev. B 81, 184202 (2010); [2] P.-W. Ma et al., Dynamic simulation of structural phase transitions in magnetic iron, Phys. Rev. B 96, 094418 (2017); [3] M.Y. Lavrentiev et al., Magnetic cluster expansion model for high-temperature magnetic properties of iron and iron–chromium alloys, Journ. Appl. Phys. 109, 07E123 (2011)
